---           
layout: post
title: Christmas Special
date: 2013-01-17 10:53:12 UTC
updated: 2013-01-17 10:53:12 UTC
comments: false
categories: Christmas Jazz Louis Armstrong Vince Guaraldi Wynton Marsalis
---
![](http://25.media.tumblr.com/de5a94de355bd1ad9956f94fafba0063/tumblr_mepw2dlwCh1rln1mco1_1280.jpg)

Christmas Spirit by [ŽAnderle](http://zanderle.com/)

There are many reasons why I decided to do a Christmas Special. For one, I
LOVE Christmas. As a little kid, I used to count down days till Christmas and
my birthday (which is near Christmas) one month in advance. I don’t do that
anymore, but not much has changed since then. I’m still a little kid who gets
giddy with excitement over Christmas. I can easily get into the Christmas
spirit and I love it! For example a couple of days ago, the first snow of this
winter inspired me to put on Christmas music and prepare some roasted nuts and
mulled wine for my parents and my girlfriend, even though it was just the
beginning of December.  
And the reason I’m doing a Christmas special more than two weeks before
Christmas, is because I’m sure there are plenty more people like me out there.
Also, I want to give anyone interested in the albums I’ll be talking about
some time to get them (getting them on Christmas Eve is too late).  
  
I’ve been a fan of Christmas music for some time, but I was never able to find
something good. Most of what I listened to, was of bad quality, it all sounded
pretty much the same and it seemed like it was made in a hurry and with just
money in mind. I guess that’s the sad part of Christmas music - it’s easy and
cheap to make and everyone will try making it, which means there’s so much
crap out there. But fortunately there’s also a lot of great heartwarming
Christmas music, you just have to find it. Last year, as a combination of luck
and frustration, I found a couple of Christmas albums which I just love and
today, I wanted to share them with you. Hopefully you’ll enjoy them as much as
I do and they will bring you some Christmas cheer.  
  
![](http://www.vinylphilemag.com/images/vince_guaraldi_trio:a_charlie_brown_christmas.jpeg)  
The first one is my favourite Christmas album ever. Most of you will know it,
but whoever doesn’t, should listen to it as soon as possible. Vince Guaraldi
and his [A Charlie Brown Christmas](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0090X4H0
W/ref=as_li_tf_tl?ie=UTF8&tag=mythougonmusi-20&linkCode=as2&camp=1789&creative
=9325&creativeASIN=B0090X4H0W)![](http://www.assoc-amazon.com/e/ir?t=mythougonmusi-20&l=as2&o=1&a=B0090X4H0W).
It’s a perfect
combination of holiday playfulness, jazz, warm sounds and of course -
Christmas spirit. It tastes exactly like those roasted nuts and mulled wine
did. It’s on top of my ‘most played albums during holidays’ list. Below is a
little taste of it. Now go and get it!  
  



  

  

![](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/7/7b/Wynton_Marsalis_Christmas_Jazz_Jam.jpg)

If we’re already at the more jazzy side of Christmas, I have to mention Wynton
Marsalis’ [Christmas Jazz Jam](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B002SROHI4/ref
=as_li_tf_tl?ie=UTF8&tag=mythougonmusi-20&linkCode=as2&camp=1789&creative=9325
&creativeASIN=B002SROHI4)![](http://www.assoc-amazon.com/e/ir?t=mythougonmusi-20&l=as2&o=1&a=B002SROHI4). This one’s a bit
more demanding than A Charlie Brown Christmas, so it may not be to everyone’s
liking, but it’s a great album. It has many wonderful moments like Good King
Wenceslas and O Little Town Of Bethlehem to name just two. Whenever I listen
to this album I feel like it’s putting together two of my favourite things.
Jazz and Christmas. Does it get any better than jazzy Christmas?  
  
  

![](http://cps-static.rovicorp.com/3/JPG_250/MI0002/454/MI0002454500.jpg?partner=allrovi.com)

Still on Christmas with jazz, here’s Louis Armstrong & Friends doing [What a
Wonderful Christmas](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000005KPO/ref=as_li_tf_
tl?ie=UTF8&tag=mythougonmusi-20&linkCode=as2&camp=1789&creative=9325&creativeA
SIN=B000005KPO)![](http://www.assoc-amazon.com/e/ir?t=mythougonmusi-20&l=as2&o=1&a=B000005KPO). When I first heard
it, I was a bit disappointed to hear there are only 6 out of 14 songs by
Louis. This makes it more of a compilation with a focus on Satchmo than an
album done by him. Nevertheless it’s a wonderful album that’s easy to enjoy.
It features names like [Dinah
Washington](http://musiceverlastingmusic.blogspot.com/2012/11/dinah-
washington.html), Duke Ellington, Peggy Lee, Louis Jordan and Lena Horne. All
in all, it’s an even better combination than Christmas Jazz Jam - Jazz and
Christmas AND Louis Armstrong! Just thinking about it, makes me feel all warm
and fuzzy inside. The only thing that leaves you sad after listening to the
album is that Louis Armstrong didn’t record more Christmas songs, because he’s
so incredibly good at it. Here’s Winter Wonderland done by him. Listen and see
what I’m talking about.  
  
([Here’s](http://dippermouth.blogspot.com/2011/12/very-satchmo-christmas-2011-edition.html) a post about it in Ricky Riccardi’s blog)  
  
That’s it for now but I’m not done yet. Next time I’ll continue with other
great, maybe a bit unexpected but great Christmas albums. Until then, tell me,
is there anyone else out there who gets excited over Christmas and Christmas
music? What are your favourites?

