---           
layout: post
title: Don't Give Up On Me
date: 2013-01-11 08:52:47 UTC
updated: 2013-01-11 08:52:47 UTC
comments: false
categories: Blues Solomon Burke Soul
---
![](http://3.bp.blogspot.com/_SJ03wRhNrzE/TLIT3coRuxI/AAAAAAAAAj4/LlV6LIcyZtw/
s1600/solomon-burke-color.jpg)

Solomon Burke

Solomon Burke, also known as the king of Rock’ n’ Soul,  was a phenomenal
singer full of energy, one of the pioneers of Soul music and also an
overlooked musical talent. For most people the name won’t ring any bells, but
I’m sure a lot of you know him even though you don’t realize. Some people
might know him through [The](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XMbK5tgjA38)[
Rolling Stones](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XMbK5tgjA38), who covered his
‘[Everybody Needs Somebody To Love](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7OKAlBC-
XWQ)’, or maybe through the movie Blues Brothers which also contains this
song, others will know him through the Dirty Dancing soundtrack and ‘[Cry To
me](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mEu8DrO9PbY)’ and some might have seen him
on [Rolling Stone list of Top 100 singers of all
time](http://www.rollingstone.com/music/lists/100-greatest-singers-of-all-
time-19691231/solomon-burke-20101202). But whether you know him or not, he’ll
always be one of the greatest Soul singers of all time.  
  
I’m a big fan of his music and his rich singing. I think it embodies exactly
the things I love about Soul music. I love how he can sing either gently and
slowly or enthusiastically and with so much force it could satisfy any kind of
audience. But either way, his singing is always powerful and full of emotion
and intricacies. I’ve been listening to his music for many years now, and at
the end of 2009, I saw that he was doing a tour around Europe. I was looking
at the tickets for the shows near Slovenia, but ultimately, I said to myself
“ah, I can’t do it this time, I’m sure he’ll be back again and I’ll go then”.
Well, in 2010 he passed away and to this day not seeing him live is still one
of the greatest regrets I’ve ever had. Today I enjoy his music more than ever,
but the way I decided not to see him there and then is on my mind whenever I
listen to him.  
  
You can easily find his big songs from the 60’s on one of different [Best of](
http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00000346M/ref=as_li_tf_tl?ie=UTF8&tag=mythou
gonmusi-20&linkCode=as2&camp=1789&creative=9325&creativeASIN=B00000346M)![](ht
tp://www.assoc-amazon.com/e/ir?t=mythougonmusi-20&l=as2&o=1&a=B00000346M)
compilations (which is definitely worth having) but if there’s one album I
would recommend to anyone, it has to be [Don't Give Up on Me](http://www.amazo
n.com/gp/product/B000068CTE/ref=as_li_tf_tl?ie=UTF8&tag=mythougonmusi-20&linkC
ode=as2&camp=1789&creative=9325&creativeASIN=B000068CTE)![](http://www.assoc-
amazon.com/e/ir?t=mythougonmusi-20&l=as2&o=1&a=B000068CTE). I feel like even
people who don’t enjoy this kind of music will like it. I absolutely love this
album and it’s one of my favourite albums ever. I like how it’s so fresh every
time I listen to it. For example, I listened to it two days ago (after
listening to it many times before, of course) and hearing it today, it feels
like I’ve heard it for the first time again. It was recorded in 2002 and it
was a great comeback for Solomon and also a great comeback for old style Soul
music. He proved that he hasn’t lost any of the energy he had in his prime
era. Some great songwriters wrote all of the songs for this album,
specifically for Solomon. All of them are great fans of his and some of these
songwriters are Bob Dylan, Nick Lowe, Brian Wilson (from the Beach Boys), Van
Morrison, Tom Waits and Elvis Costello. Listen to this great song to either
get a feeling of the album or to just hear an amazing song and an amazing
vocalist.  
  

  
Do you like it? What do you think? As always, I would love to hear your
thoughts on the matter.

