---           
layout: post
title: How I got into jazz
date: 2014-07-02 19:48:27 UTC
updated: 2014-07-02 19:48:27 UTC
comments: false
categories: Jazz Louis Armstrong Story
---
![](http://1.bp.blogspot.com/-xOBj9x28df0/U7RhzavFqjI/AAAAAAAABo4/srzLXZOH9uE/
s1600/63.jpg)

It has been too long. I haven’t written a post for over a year. I devoted all
my focus to other things in my life, but recently I found myself wanting to
start writing about music again. So here I am. I’ll write one post a week from
now on, so stay tuned. And please comment - feedback is always nice!

Since it’s been a while, I thought it would be appropriate to do something
slightly different. This one will be a personal story. It might be a silly
story, but it is actually quite important to me, so I’m going for it anyway. I
wanted to tell you the story of how I discovered Jazz (and the rest of the
music I listen to today).

  
  

It should be clear to anyone reading this blog that I’m really into music. To
me, it’s one of the finest things life has to offer. The music I listen to and
enjoy is something I identify myself with. It isn’t an overstatement to say
that it’s a part of who I am. But it hasn’t always been like this.  
  

> “Without music, life would be a mistake.”― Friedrich Nietzsche

  

Today, it plays a big part of my everyday life. It probably does for most
people, I just tend to be quite ebullient and passionate about it (why do you
think I write a blog on it). It fills most of my time - music is around when I
work, study or relax. I love taking time off just to put on a good record, and
do nothing else at the same time. I get a kick out of reading books on music
and musicians. But in the end, it’s simply about the beauty, intricacies and
the sheer perfection of good music, that draws me so much.

Nowadays, I listen mostly to Jazz and Blues. Some years back, I actually
thought I didn't like that kind of music and in a lot of ways I didn't. I felt
like it's not for me, because it's too complicated and I would  never 'get
it'. I'd be intrigued by it, but stopped myself, thinking you have to be a
musician or special kind of smart, to get it.

  

Then one day, I watched [WALL-E](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0910970/).

  

In one scene near the beginning of the movie, a song inconspicuously started
playing. A lovely trickling piano sounded the room and then, the most
beautiful trumpet I’ve ever heard entered with gusto. I was still not aware of
an impact that this would have on me. Then, as the rich, coarse voice, full of
love and romance sang ‘Hold me close and hold me fast, the magic spell you
cast…’ I would start noticing something. I wouldn’t know what it was until
later, but I was moved. After it ended, the music left a profound presence in
the room. I was mesmerized. I kept asking myself "What was that song?". As I’m
writing this, I’m aware of the absurdity to write down such significance to
WALL-E, but at that time, it was everything. Not the movie, but what it
brought to me. The movie ended, and I was still just asking myself that
question. I resorted to the the Internet gods, asking if they know what song
it was. I couldn’t find it, so eventually I went through the whole soundtrack,
until I came across the familiar sound.

  

La Vie En Rose.

Louis Armstrong.

  

Hm, I had heard of him. Well, I knew him to the extent of 'What a Wonderful
World'. And I vaguely remembered a music class in elementary school, where we
mentioned him in relation to something about jazz. I was a bit surprised that
this was the man behind the song. Little did I know, that this song, and this
musical colossus will change my life. I Immediately looked for the song on
Youtube - I had to hear this magic again. And I did. I listened to it one more
time, then I started clicking through related songs. I carefully listened to
every song, savoring each note. With every single song, I was taken deeper
into the rabbit hole. It was like meeting someone for the first time, falling
for them, and then wondering where they've been your whole life. I never knew
I could feel such joy listening to music. Music like this was unknown to me
and I was swept away.

  

Thus began my journey to the wonderful music of Louis Armstrong and ultimately
to the world of Jazz, Blues and Soul. In the following weeks, I would continue
exploring Satchmo's music and even after the initial excitement wore off,
there would be a song every now and then, that would stop me from what I was
doing, and just make me marvel at the beauty. To this day, Louis Armstrong is
my all-time favorite musician.

  

After falling so desperately in love with his music, I started doubting my
previous decision that Jazz is not for me. Suddenly I was drawn to it. Most of
it was still a sound I wasn't used to, but I decided to start exploring it. I
watched a great documentary - Jazz, by Ken Burns, which in turn, introduced me
to many important figures of jazz history. I started listening to [Ella
Fitzgerald](http://musiceverlastingmusic.blogspot.com/2012/11/the-first-lady-
of-song.html), Duke Ellington, Clifford Brown, Fats Waller, [Robert
Johnson](http://musiceverlastingmusic.blogspot.com/2013/01/robert-
johnson.html) and many more. I relished their music. And with every new
artist, every song, every record, one thing became clearer and clearer. I
found my passion.

